can you feel that that thing that's
beating your Volvo can you feel it can
you real butter
can y'all feel that get your meal
hey this is Hilary goldstein editor in
chief of IGN xbox 360 here to give you a
video review of madden NFL 2008 we've
been saying for the last couple of years
oh here comes in next gen madden and boy
have we been wrong but this year
honestly Madden 08 is actually the first
worthy next-gen version of Mad so this
year ea's added a new branching
animation system which basically means
that you can kind of pull out of one
move and go into another one so you can
start at you and then do like a stiff
arms right away whereas before you kind
of wait for one animation to end they've
also done a lot of nifty things like
made it so that receivers will actually
try to tiptoe around the sidelines and
you know if they're about to catch a
ball they'll actually try to keep their
feet in bounds that have just
immediately jumping out of bounds for a
catch and all this is going to be based
on their ratings so that if you have
receiver who's really good like Chad
Johnson he's gonna have a lot better
chance of actually staying in bounds to
make that catch than somebody else also
this year madness' added some real gang
tackling stuff that is going on so
you'll actually see one guy will grab
say ladainian tomlinson and kind of hold
on to him whilst you know another
linebacker will come in and put on ahead
there's quite a lot of plays where its
people sort of slowing down really good
ball carriers until somebody can finally
take them down with that they've added
hits 2 point 0 which now before you
always kind of just press the right
thumbstick in the direction you want to
tackle but now you actually have a
choice between doing a high-tech or a
low tackle no tackles a cut tackle going
at somebody's legs which can be a good
way to get down a running back but at
the same time you know if you miss
they're gonna jump over you and they
could go for
so it's kind of cool that there's a
dynamic now to the system where there
wasn't one before so while a lot of the
gameplay has improved and certainly at
the animations look a lot better there's
still a lot of problems that man has had
for a long time that persists you're
gonna see with almost any kicker if you
get a perfectly powered kick it's gonna
go almost at the back of the end zone
and if you watch the NFL there's not a
lot of touchbacks anymore but it happens
all the time in matte and it's a little
bit ridiculous and you know you still
can't call any kind of plays on the
receiving team you can't you know say I
want to do reverse or anything like that
so it's still very archaic and you think
by now EA would have actually got its
act together and done something with
special teams so it actually was like it
is in the NFL unfortunately there's a
lot more good than bad and Madden this
year one of the cool things that they've
added is a weapons feature and what that
is basically any player who has over 90
rating and specific abilities will get a
weapons classification and so you know
you'll have a smart quarterback for
Peyton Manning and that means that if
the defense keeps calling the same plays
over and over again he'll be able to
actually read the defense figure out
what play they're doing you'll actually
see the play on the field so you can
counter it and of course you know
Peyton's great at doing those audibles
so it's a perfect fit for him you know
ladainian tomlinson will be being
elusive back because he has a better
ability to slip through tackles you're
gonna have power hitters like Shawne
Merriman's a great example of a guy who
hits with a lot of power so he has a lot
more chance of getting a guy to drop the
ball when he gets them with the hit stay
on the feature side of things the
franchise mode is more or less what you
saw from last year but there have been a
couple of other editions ownership mode
is sort of back it's in what's called
finance mode now you won't get to do
traditional stuff from an ownership mode
like setting ticket prices and
concession prices and really managing
your money that way but you will be able
to build a new stadium and that's a
pretty deep feature and you also have a
lot more abilities in terms of scouting
players college players throughout the
here and also just sort of managing the
economic flow of your team for several
years instead of just kind of worrying
about the cap year-to-year you actually
can kind of look and project towards a
future a little bit more so in that way
it's more of like a GM mode but but it
works pretty well so that the promise of
sort of an ownership mode maybe wasn't
fully delivered on also improved this
year is superstar mode they've actually
fixed the camera for all positions so
you're going to have a good camera angle
no matter what position you choose to be
a superstar in and also this year you
can play as any of the rookies so if you
want to try and be Calvin Johnson and
basically bring them from you know being
a rookie to being a hall-of-famer over
his career you can do that now it's a
pretty awesome feature to have the only
thing is that because these guys have
already been drafted you will have to
play on the teams they've been drafted
on so unfortunately if you want to be
Calvin Johnson you do have to play on
the Lions which may hurt your chances of
becoming a Hall of Fame player but with
any luck after a few years you'll get
into free agency and get to go to a good
team semaine NFL or a is a better game
than last year and it is the first game
that really does utilize the next gen
technology to give us a game with cooler
animation is just a better overall look
and a deeper game however there are
still some nagging problems that ofertas
franchise for a long time that haven't
been addressed the franchise mode just
isn't quite as deep as we'd like it to
be and I have to say that it is
disappointing that special teams is
still being overlooked in that ownership
mode isn't the kind of ownership mode
that everybody was hoping for that said
madman is the only game with the NFL
license and it is a good game it just
doesn't happen to be a great game and if
you're a long time Madden fan or if you
just love the NFL this is certainly one
to pick up just don't expect the best
man experience we've ever had
I